.planning/v1.2-MILESTONE-AUDIT.md, before:

---
milestone: v1.2
audited: 2026-01-29
status: passed
retroactive: true
scores:
  requirements: 5/5 phases
  phases: 5/5 implemented
  integration: 5/5
  flows: 3/3
gaps:
  requirements: []
  integration: []
  flows: []
tech_debt:
  - phase: 12-block-parry
    items:
      - "Missing VERIFICATION.md (functionally complete, 2 SUMMARYs exist)"
      - "Stun logic inline in enemy_base.gd (is_stunned flag) rather than dedicated state — efficient but less extensible"
  - phase: 16-ring-menu
    items:
      - "Missing VERIFICATION.md (functionally complete, 4 SUMMARYs exist)"
  - phase: pre-existing
    items:
      - "Equipment/inventory not persisted in save system (addressed in v1.3.1 Phase 21)"
---

# v1.2 New Mechanics — Milestone Audit Report (Retroactive)

**Audited:** 2026-01-29
**Status:** ✅ PASSED
**Overall:** Defensive combat, item drops, persistent progression, ring menu, and automated UI testing all fully implemented.
**Note:** Partially retroactive — Phases 12 and 16 predate formal verification. Phases 13-15 have full GSD artifacts.

## Milestone Definition of Done

> Defensive combat, item drops, persistent progression, ring menu, and automated UI testing.

**Verdict:** ✅ Fully achieved.

## Phase Verification Summary

| Phase | Name | Plans | Verified | Status |
|-------|------|-------|----------|--------|
| 12 | Block & Parry | 2 | ⚠️ No VERIFICATION.md (2 SUMMARYs exist) | ✅ Complete |
| 13 | Items & Pickups | 3 | ✅ 13-VERIFICATION.md | ✅ Complete |
| 14 | Save System | 2 | ✅ 14-VERIFICATION.md | ✅ Complete |
| 15 | UI Testing Automation | 3 | ✅ 15-VERIFICATION.md | ✅ Complete |
| 16 | Ring Menu System | 4 | ⚠️ No VERIFICATION.md (4 SUMMARYs exist) | ✅ Complete |

**Phases 13-15 have full GSD planning artifacts. Phases 12 and 16 have SUMMARYs but no formal VERIFICATION.md.**

## Requirements Coverage

| Requirement | Phase | Status |
|-------------|-------|--------|
| Block state (V key, 50% damage reduction) | 12 | ✅ player_block.gd with damage halving |
| Guard meter (30/sec deplete, 20/sec regen, 1s delay) | 12 | ✅ guard_component.gd with configurable rates |
| Parry window (first 0.15s of block) | 12 | ✅ Perfect parry detection in player_block.gd |
| Perfect parry reflects 50% damage + 1s stun | 12 | ✅ Stun via is_stunned flag in enemy_base.gd |
| Guard bar in HUD (fade when full, solid when depleting) | 12 | ✅ guard_bar.gd with 0.3 alpha fade |
| Health pickup with magnet effect | 13 | ✅ health_pickup.tscn with attraction |
| Coin pickup + coin counter HUD | 13 | ✅ coin_pickup.tscn + coin_counter.gd with smooth lerp |
| Enemy drop tables (configurable per type) | 13 | ✅ drop_table in enemy_base.gd, per-enemy overrides |
| Pickup collection effects (sound, animation) | 13 | ✅ Pop animation on pickup |
| SaveManager autoload (atomic writes) | 14 | ✅ .tmp write + DirAccess rename pattern |
| Save: level, EXP, coins, zone, boss flags | 14 | ✅ JSON serialization with all fields |
| Auto-save on zone transitions | 14 | ✅ Events.zone_entered trigger |
| Manual save from pause menu | 14 | ✅ Pause menu save button |
| Load game from title screen | 14 | ✅ Title screen load option |
| UITester mode (F2 toggle) | 15 | ✅ ui_tester.gd with scenario runner |
| Test scenarios: title→gameplay→pause→game over | 15 | ✅ Full flow coverage |
| HUD verification (health, guard, coin, EXP) | 15 | ✅ Automated element checks |
| Test report with pass rate | 15 | ✅ Console output with percentages |
| Ring menu (Secret of Mana style, Tab toggle) | 16 | ✅ ring_menu.gd with radial layout |
| Multiple rings (Items/Equipment/Companions/Options) | 16 | ✅ Ring switching with Up/Down |
| Item system (usable consumables) | 16 | ✅ inventory.gd with buff system |
| Equipment system (5 dog-themed slots) | 16 | ✅ equipment_manager.gd: Collar, Harness, Leash, Coat, Hat |
| Companion system (Momi/Cinnamon/Philo) | 16 | ✅ party_manager.gd with unique meters |
| Q key companion cycling | 16 | ✅ Cycle active companion |

**Score: 24/24 requirements satisfied**

## Cross-Phase Integration

| # | Integration Point | Score | Detail |
|---|-------------------|-------|--------|
| 1 | Block→Guard→HUD: V key → guard_component → Events.guard_changed → guard_bar | ✅ 1.0 | Full signal chain, HUD reflects meter status and parry flashes |
| 2 | Drops→Inventory: Enemy death → drop_table → spawn pickup → Inventory.add_item() | ✅ 1.0 | Coin counter smoothly animates on gain |
| 3 | Save→All Systems: SaveManager ↔ GameManager + Inventory + Equipment + Party | ✅ 1.0 | Aggregates data via get_save_data()/load_save_data() pattern |
| 4 | Ring Menu→Equipment→Party: Menu reads live data from managers | ✅ 1.0 | Switching companion updates active_companion_id correctly |
| 5 | UITester→All UI: Automated verification of HUD, menus, new features | ✅ 1.0 | Smoke tests cover block feedback, pickup collection, ring menu |

**Integration Score: 5/5 (100%)**

## E2E Flow Verification

### Flow 1: Defensive Combat ✅
Fight Enemy → Hold V to Block (50% reduction) → Guard Bar Depletes → Release → Guard Regens (1s delay) → Perfect Parry (0.15s window) → Enemy Stunned 1s → Counter-Attack

### Flow 2: Loot & Progression ✅
Kill Enemy → Drop Table Rolls → Coin/Health Pickup Spawns → Magnet Collection → Coin Counter Updates → Visit Shop (v1.3) → Buy Equipment → Equip via Ring Menu → Stats Increase

### Flow 3: Save/Load Round-Trip ✅
Play Session → Auto-Save on Zone Exit → Quit → Title Screen → Load Game → Level/EXP/Coins/Zone Restored → Continue Playing

**Flow Score: 3/3 (100%)**

## System Architecture (v1.2)

| System | Key Files | Autoload? |
|--------|-----------|-----------|
| Guard/Block | guard_component.gd, player_block.gd | No (component) |
| Items/Drops | coin_pickup.tscn, health_pickup.tscn | No (scenes) |
| Save | save_manager.gd | Yes |
| UI Testing | ui_tester.gd, auto_bot.gd | Yes |
| Ring Menu | ring_menu.gd | No (UI scene) |
| Inventory | inventory.gd | Yes |
| Equipment | equipment_manager.gd | Yes |
| Party | party_manager.gd | Yes |
| Events Bus | events.gd | Yes |

**v1.2 added 5 new autoloads** (SaveManager, Inventory, EquipmentManager, PartyManager, UITester) on top of the v1.0 foundation (GameManager, Events, AudioManager).

## Documentation Gaps

| Phase | SUMMARYs | VERIFICATION | Notes |
|-------|----------|-------------|-------|
| 12 | ✅ 12-01, 12-02 | ❌ Missing | First GSD-planned phase, verification not yet formalized |
| 13 | ✅ 13-01, 13-02, 13-03 | ✅ 13-VERIFICATION.md | Full GSD artifacts |
| 14 | ✅ 14-01, 14-02 | ✅ 14-VERIFICATION.md | Full GSD artifacts |
| 15 | ✅ 15-01, 15-02, 15-03 | ✅ 15-VERIFICATION.md | Full GSD artifacts |
| 16 | ✅ 16-01, 16-02, 16-03, 16-04 | ❌ Missing | Complex phase, verification skipped |

**2 of 5 phases missing VERIFICATION.md.** Both are functionally complete with full SUMMARYs.

## Tech Debt

### Priority: Low (no blockers)

| # | Item | Phase | Severity | Notes |
|---|------|-------|----------|-------|
| 1 | Phase 12 missing VERIFICATION.md | 12 | Low | 2 SUMMARYs exist, block/parry works in-game |
| 2 | Phase 16 missing VERIFICATION.md | 16 | Low | 4 SUMMARYs exist, ring menu/party works in-game |
| 3 | Inline stun logic (is_stunned flag) | 12 | Low | Works for current stun, may need state node for complex stun animations |
| 4 | Equipment/inventory not in save (pre-v1.3.1) | 14/16 | Resolved | Fixed in Phase 21 (v1.3.1) — save version v3 |

### Total: 3 open items (all low severity), 1 already resolved

## Conclusion

v1.2 New Mechanics is **fully implemented with strong integration**. The Block & Parry system adds meaningful defensive depth, the Save System provides persistent progression, and the Ring Menu with its companion and equipment systems represents the largest single feature in the game. The UI Testing automation (Phase 15) provides ongoing regression coverage. The only gaps are 2 missing VERIFICATION.md files for Phases 12 and 16 — both functionally complete with full SUMMARY documentation. The equipment persistence gap was already resolved in v1.3.1.

---

*Audited: 2026-01-29 (retroactive)*
*Auditor: Claude (gsd-audit-milestone)*

Commit message:

docs: create Phase 12/16 verification + fix v1.3 integration to 100%
- Phase 12 (Block & Parry): 8/8 must-haves verified retroactively
- Phase 16 (Ring Menu): 12/12 must-haves verified retroactively
- v1.3 integration: 6.5/7 → 7/7 (mini-boss loot gap was fixed in Phase 22)
- v1.2 audit updated: 0 missing VERIFICATION.md files remaining

.planning/v1.2-MILESTONE-AUDIT.md, after:

---
milestone: v1.2
audited: 2026-01-29
status: passed
retroactive: true
scores:
  requirements: 5/5 phases
  phases: 5/5 implemented
  integration: 5/5
  flows: 3/3
gaps:
  requirements: []
  integration: []
  flows: []
tech_debt:
  - phase: 12-block-parry
    items:
      - "Stun logic inline in enemy_base.gd (is_stunned flag) rather than dedicated state — efficient but less extensible"
  - phase: pre-existing
    items:
      - "Equipment/inventory not persisted in save system (addressed in v1.3.1 Phase 21)"
resolved_since_audit:
  - "Phase 12 VERIFICATION.md created retroactively"
  - "Phase 16 VERIFICATION.md created retroactively"
---

# v1.2 New Mechanics — Milestone Audit Report (Retroactive)

**Audited:** 2026-01-29
**Status:** ✅ PASSED
**Overall:** Defensive combat, item drops, persistent progression, ring menu, and automated UI testing all fully implemented.
**Note:** Partially retroactive — Phases 12 and 16 predate formal verification. Phases 13-15 have full GSD artifacts.

## Milestone Definition of Done

> Defensive combat, item drops, persistent progression, ring menu, and automated UI testing.

**Verdict:** ✅ Fully achieved.

## Phase Verification Summary

| Phase | Name | Plans | Verified | Status |
|-------|------|-------|----------|--------|
| 12 | Block & Parry | 2 | ✅ 12-VERIFICATION.md (retroactive) | ✅ Complete |
| 13 | Items & Pickups | 3 | ✅ 13-VERIFICATION.md | ✅ Complete |
| 14 | Save System | 2 | ✅ 14-VERIFICATION.md | ✅ Complete |
| 15 | UI Testing Automation | 3 | ✅ 15-VERIFICATION.md | ✅ Complete |
| 16 | Ring Menu System | 4 | ✅ 16-VERIFICATION.md (retroactive) | ✅ Complete |

**All 5 phases have full VERIFICATION.md files.** Phases 12 and 16 were verified retroactively.

## Requirements Coverage

| Requirement | Phase | Status |
|-------------|-------|--------|
| Block state (V key, 50% damage reduction) | 12 | ✅ player_block.gd with damage halving |
| Guard meter (30/sec deplete, 20/sec regen, 1s delay) | 12 | ✅ guard_component.gd with configurable rates |
| Parry window (first 0.15s of block) | 12 | ✅ Perfect parry detection in player_block.gd |
| Perfect parry reflects 50% damage + 1s stun | 12 | ✅ Stun via is_stunned flag in enemy_base.gd |
| Guard bar in HUD (fade when full, solid when depleting) | 12 | ✅ guard_bar.gd with 0.3 alpha fade |
| Health pickup with magnet effect | 13 | ✅ health_pickup.tscn with attraction |
| Coin pickup + coin counter HUD | 13 | ✅ coin_pickup.tscn + coin_counter.gd with smooth lerp |
| Enemy drop tables (configurable per type) | 13 | ✅ drop_table in enemy_base.gd, per-enemy overrides |
| Pickup collection effects (sound, animation) | 13 | ✅ Pop animation on pickup |
| SaveManager autoload (atomic writes) | 14 | ✅ .tmp write + DirAccess rename pattern |
| Save: level, EXP, coins, zone, boss flags | 14 | ✅ JSON serialization with all fields |
| Auto-save on zone transitions | 14 | ✅ Events.zone_entered trigger |
| Manual save from pause menu | 14 | ✅ Pause menu save button |
| Load game from title screen | 14 | ✅ Title screen load option |
| UITester mode (F2 toggle) | 15 | ✅ ui_tester.gd with scenario runner |
| Test scenarios: title→gameplay→pause→game over | 15 | ✅ Full flow coverage |
| HUD verification (health, guard, coin, EXP) | 15 | ✅ Automated element checks |
| Test report with pass rate | 15 | ✅ Console output with percentages |
| Ring menu (Secret of Mana style, Tab toggle) | 16 | ✅ ring_menu.gd with radial layout |
| Multiple rings (Items/Equipment/Companions/Options) | 16 | ✅ Ring switching with Up/Down |
| Item system (usable consumables) | 16 | ✅ inventory.gd with buff system |
| Equipment system (5 dog-themed slots) | 16 | ✅ equipment_manager.gd: Collar, Harness, Leash, Coat, Hat |
| Companion system (Momi/Cinnamon/Philo) | 16 | ✅ party_manager.gd with unique meters |
| Q key companion cycling | 16 | ✅ Cycle active companion |

**Score: 24/24 requirements satisfied**

## Cross-Phase Integration

| # | Integration Point | Score | Detail |
|---|-------------------|-------|--------|
| 1 | Block→Guard→HUD: V key → guard_component → Events.guard_changed → guard_bar | ✅ 1.0 | Full signal chain, HUD reflects meter status and parry flashes |
| 2 | Drops→Inventory: Enemy death → drop_table → spawn pickup → Inventory.add_item() | ✅ 1.0 | Coin counter smoothly animates on gain |
| 3 | Save→All Systems: SaveManager ↔ GameManager + Inventory + Equipment + Party | ✅ 1.0 | Aggregates data via get_save_data()/load_save_data() pattern |
| 4 | Ring Menu→Equipment→Party: Menu reads live data from managers | ✅ 1.0 | Switching companion updates active_companion_id correctly |
| 5 | UITester→All UI: Automated verification of HUD, menus, new features | ✅ 1.0 | Smoke tests cover block feedback, pickup collection, ring menu |

**Integration Score: 5/5 (100%)**

## E2E Flow Verification

### Flow 1: Defensive Combat ✅
Fight Enemy → Hold V to Block (50% reduction) → Guard Bar Depletes → Release → Guard Regens (1s delay) → Perfect Parry (0.15s window) → Enemy Stunned 1s → Counter-Attack

### Flow 2: Loot & Progression ✅
Kill Enemy → Drop Table Rolls → Coin/Health Pickup Spawns → Magnet Collection → Coin Counter Updates → Visit Shop (v1.3) → Buy Equipment → Equip via Ring Menu → Stats Increase

### Flow 3: Save/Load Round-Trip ✅
Play Session → Auto-Save on Zone Exit → Quit → Title Screen → Load Game → Level/EXP/Coins/Zone Restored → Continue Playing

**Flow Score: 3/3 (100%)**

## System Architecture (v1.2)

| System | Key Files | Autoload? |
|--------|-----------|-----------|
| Guard/Block | guard_component.gd, player_block.gd | No (component) |
| Items/Drops | coin_pickup.tscn, health_pickup.tscn | No (scenes) |
| Save | save_manager.gd | Yes |
| UI Testing | ui_tester.gd, auto_bot.gd | Yes |
| Ring Menu | ring_menu.gd | No (UI scene) |
| Inventory | inventory.gd | Yes |
| Equipment | equipment_manager.gd | Yes |
| Party | party_manager.gd | Yes |
| Events Bus | events.gd | Yes |

**v1.2 added 5 new autoloads** (SaveManager, Inventory, EquipmentManager, PartyManager, UITester) on top of the v1.0 foundation (GameManager, Events, AudioManager).

## Documentation Status

| Phase | SUMMARYs | VERIFICATION | Notes |
|-------|----------|-------------|-------|
| 12 | ✅ 12-01, 12-02 | ✅ 12-VERIFICATION.md | Retroactive (8/8 must-haves) |
| 13 | ✅ 13-01, 13-02, 13-03 | ✅ 13-VERIFICATION.md | Full GSD artifacts |
| 14 | ✅ 14-01, 14-02 | ✅ 14-VERIFICATION.md | Full GSD artifacts |
| 15 | ✅ 15-01, 15-02, 15-03 | ✅ 15-VERIFICATION.md | Full GSD artifacts |
| 16 | ✅ 16-01, 16-02, 16-03, 16-04 | ✅ 16-VERIFICATION.md | Retroactive (12/12 must-haves) |

**All 5 phases have complete VERIFICATION.md files.** 100% documentation coverage.

## Tech Debt

### Priority: Low (no blockers)

| # | Item | Phase | Severity | Notes |
|---|------|-------|----------|-------|
| 1 | Inline stun logic (is_stunned flag) | 12 | Low | Works for current stun, may need state node for complex stun animations |
| 2 | Equipment/inventory not in save (pre-v1.3.1) | 14/16 | Resolved | Fixed in Phase 21 (v1.3.1) — save version v3 |

### Total: 1 open item (low severity), 1 already resolved
### Resolved: Phase 12 and Phase 16 VERIFICATION.md files now created

## Conclusion

v1.2 New Mechanics is **fully implemented with strong integration and complete documentation**. The Block & Parry system adds meaningful defensive depth, the Save System provides persistent progression, and the Ring Menu with its companion and equipment systems represents the largest single feature in the game. The UI Testing automation (Phase 15) provides ongoing regression coverage. All 5 phases now have VERIFICATION.md files (Phases 12 and 16 created retroactively). The only remaining tech debt is the inline stun logic — a minor extensibility concern. The equipment persistence gap was already resolved in v1.3.1.

---

*Audited: 2026-01-29 (retroactive)*
*Auditor: Claude (gsd-audit-milestone)*
